doc: Created a user guide for Thingy:91 (#1774)
NordicPlayground/fw-nrfconnect-nrf: doc/nrf/ug_thingy91.rst

.. _ug_thingy91:

.. _thingy91_ug_intro:

Working with Thingy:91
######################

The |NCS| provides support for developing on the Thingy:91 using the following inbuilt components:

* nRF9160 System in Package (SiP) using the nRF9160 DK board (PCA10090)

> * nRF52840 System on Chip (SoC) using the nRF52840 DK board (PCA10056)

Reviewer: I'm probably misunderstanding something here, just wondering why nRF9160 DK and nRF52840 DK are mentioned?

Author: Modified to
 * nRF9160 System in Package (SiP)
* nRF52840 System on Chip (SoC)

You can program the Thingy:91 either on the nRF9160 SiP or on the nRF52840 SoC component.

For the detailed procedure for programming a Thingy:91 using nRF Connect Programmer, see the following: (links to the thingy91 programming sections in nRF connect programmer userguide in infocenter to be added here).

Updating modem firmware
=======================

You can update the modem firmware of Thingy:91 by using an external debug probe such as nRF9160 DK or any J-Link device supporting ARM Cortex-M33.
See (link to the thingy91 modem update section in nRF connect programmer userguide in infocenter to be added here) for the detailed steps to update the modem firmware.

.. _building_pgming:

Building and programming from the source code
*********************************************

You can also program the Thingy:91 by using the images obtained by building the code in an |NCS| environment.

To set up your system to be able to build a compatible firmware image, follow the `nRF Connect SDK Getting started guide`_.
There are two build targets of interest for  Thingy:91 in |NCS|, namely:

> * ``nrf9160_pca20035ns``

Reviewer: It's also possible to use the target `nrf9160_pca20035` for secure-only firmware. LTE/GPS can only be used with non-secure target.

Author: Placing this information in a table to include information about the secure and the non-secure versions. Also added the information ' LTE/GPS can only be used with non-secure target.' as a note.

   The ``app_signed.hex`` firmware image file is used for the update in this scenario.

.. _build_pgm_segger:

Building and programming using SEGGER Embedded Studio
=====================================================

.. include:: gs_programming.rst
   :start-after: build_SES_projimport_open_start
   :end-before: build_SES_projimport_open_end

.. figure:: images/ses_thingy_configuration.png
   :alt: Opening the AT Client sample

   Opening the AT Client sample for the nrf9160_pca20035ns build target

.. note::

   The *Board Directory* folder can be found in the following location: ``ncs/nrf/boards/arm``.

4. Click **OK** to import the project into SES. You can now work with the project in the IDE.

   .. include:: gs_programming.rst
      :start-after: build_SES_projimport_note_start
      :end-before: build_SES_projimport_note_end

#. To build the sample or an application:

   a. Select your project in the Project Explorer.
   #. From the menu, select **Build -> Build Solution**.
      This builds the project.

>    The merged hex file, containing both the application and the SPM is located in ``\nrf\samples\nrf9160\at_client\build_nrf9160_pca20035\zephyr`` if you build the secure version and in ``\nrf\samples\nrf9160\at_client\build_nrf9160_pca20035ns\zephyr`` if you build the non-secure version.

Reviewer: I'm not familiar with SES environment for building, but I think only the non-secure output should be valid for the AT client? BSD lib can't run from secure context

Author: Generalizing this as follows:
You can find the output of the build, which includes the merged HEX file containing both the application and the SPM, in the ``zephyr`` sub-folder in the build directory.

.. _ug_thingy91:

.. _thingy91_ug_intro:

Working with Thingy:91
######################

> The |NCS| provides support for developing on the Thingy:91 using the following inbuilt components:

Author: Removed the list and retained the following sentence at the end of the section: The |NCS| provides support for developing applications on the Thingy:91.

> Thingy:91 is a battery-operated prototyping platform for cellular IoT systems, designed especially for asset tracking applications and environmental monitoring.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Nordic Thingy:91 is a battery-operated prototyping platform for cellular IoT systems, designed especially for asset tracking applications and environmental monitoring.
```
Let's use the full name on the first occurrence.

Author: Added.

LTE Band Lock
=============

The modem within Thingy:91 can be configured to use specific LTE bands by using the band lock AT command.
See :ref:`nrf9160_ug_band_lock` and the `band lock section in the AT Commands reference document`_ for additional information.
The pre-flashed firmware configures the modem to use the bands currently certified on the Thingy:91 hardware.
When building the firmware, you can configure which bands should be enabled.

LTE-M / NB-IoT switching
========================

Thingy:91 has a multimode modem, which enables it to support automatic switching between LTE-M and NB-IoT.
A built-in parameter in the Thingy:91 firmware determines whether the modem first attempts to connect in LTE-M or NB-IoT mode.
If the modem fails to connect using this preferred mode within the default time-out period (10 minutes), the modem switches to the other mode.

Modem firmware
==============

The functionality of the multimode modem of Thingy:91 is based on its firmware, which is available as a precompiled binary.
You can download the modem firmware from the `Thingy:91 product website (downloads)`_.

> The downloadable zip file contains both the full firmware images used with an external debug probe and the firmware images used for updating the firmware through the built-in bootloader.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The downloadable zip file contains both the full firmware images that can be programmed using an external debug probe and the firmware images that can be used for updating the firmware through the built-in bootloader.
```

Author: Modified.

The functionality of the multimode modem of Thingy:91 is based on its firmware which is available as a pre-compiled binary.
You can download the modem firmware from the `Thingy:91 product website (downloads)`_.

> The downloadable zip file contains the full firmware image and the firmware image files for updating the firmware.

Reviewer 2: @joakimtoe Does the Thingy support incremental updates?

Reviewer 3: I would say something like: "The downloadable zip file contains both the full firmware images used with an external debug probe and the firmware images used for updating the firmware through the built in bootloader"

Author: Modified.

.. _precompiled_fw:

> Programming pre-compiled firmware images

Reviewer 2: "precompiled" according to our terms list (occurs in more places)

****************************************

Pre-compiled firmware image files are useful in the following scenarios:

* Restoring the firmware to its initial image

* Updating the application firmware to a newly released version

* Updating the modem firmware

Downloading pre-compiled firmware images
========================================

> To obtain pre-compiled firmware images for firmware update, perform the following steps:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
To obtain precompiled firmware images for updating the firmware, perform the following steps:
```
or "for firmware updates"

	1. Go to the `Thingy:91 product description`_ page and under the **Downloads** tab, navigate to **Precompiled firmware**.
	#. Download and extract the latest Thingy:91 firmware package.

> 	#. Check the ``CONTENTS.txt`` file in the extracted folder for the location and names of the different firmware images.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
	#. Check the :file:`CONTENTS.txt` file in the extracted folder for the location and names of the different firmware images.
```

.. _programming_usb:

Quick programming of pre-compiled firmware images
=================================================

> When you have the pre-compiled firmware images ready, you can directly program the images onto the Thingy:91 using the `nRF Connect Programmer`_ app, which is implemented as part of the `nRF Connect for Desktop`_.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
When you have the pre-compiled firmware images ready, you can directly program the images onto the Thingy:91 using the `nRF Connect Programmer`_ app, which is available in  `nRF Connect for Desktop`_.
```

> This is a direct USB method, making use of the MCUboot feature and the inbuilt serial recovery mode of Thingy:91.

Reviewer 2: Not sure what we mean with "direct USB method".
Maybe:
When programming with nRF Connect Programmer, you connect the Thingy:91 directly to your PC through USB.
This method makes use of :doc:`mcuboot:index` and the inbuilt ...

Author: changed to : In this method, the Thingy:91 is connected directly to your PC through USB. This method makes use of ....

> You can program the Thingy:91 either on the nRF9160 SiP or on the nRF52840 SoC component.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
You can program either the nRF9160 SiP or the nRF52840 SoC component on the Thingy:91.
```

> For the detailed procedures for programming a Thingy:91 using nRF Connect Programmer, see the following:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
For the detailed procedures for programming a Thingy:91 using nRF Connect Programmer, see the following documentation:
```

Author: Added.

For the detailed procedure for programming a Thingy:91 using nRF Connect Programmer, see the following: (links to the thingy91 programming sections in nRF connect programmer userguide in infocenter to be added here).

> Updating modem firmware

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Updating the modem firmware
```

=======================

You can update the modem firmware of Thingy:91 by using an external debug probe such as nRF9160 DK or any J-Link device supporting ARM Cortex-M33.
See (link to the thingy91 modem update section in nRF connect programmer userguide in infocenter to be added here) for the detailed steps to update the modem firmware.

.. _building_pgming:

Building and programming from the source code
*********************************************

You can also program the Thingy:91 by using the images obtained by building the code in an |NCS| environment.

> To set up your system to be able to build a compatible firmware image, follow the `nRF Connect SDK Getting started guide`_.

Reviewer 2: ... the :ref:`getting_started`.

> The build targets of interest for  Thingy:91 in |NCS|, are as follows:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The build targets of interest for Thingy:91 in |NCS| are as follows:
```

+---------------+--------------------------------------------------+

> |Component      |  Build Target                                    |

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
|Component      |  Build target                                    |
```

+===============+==================================================+
|nRF9160 SiP    |``nrf9160_pca20035`` for the secure version       |
|               |                                                  |
|               |``nrf9160_pca20035ns`` for the non-secure version |
+---------------+--------------------------------------------------+
|nRF52840 SoC   |``nrf52840_pca20035``                             |
+---------------+--------------------------------------------------+

> You should use the build target ``nrf9160_pca20035`` or ``nrf9160_pca20035ns``, when building the application code for the nRF9160 SiP and the build target ``nrf52840_pca20035``, when building the application code for the onboard nRF52840 SoC.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
You should use the build target ``nrf9160_pca20035`` or ``nrf9160_pca20035ns`` when building the application code for the nRF9160 SiP and the build target ``nrf52840_pca20035`` when building the application code for the onboard nRF52840 SoC.
```

.. note::

   LTE/GPS features can only be used with non-secure target.

The table below shows the different types of build files that are generated and the different scenarios in which they are used:

+--------------+----------------------------------------+---------------------------------------+
| File         | File format                            | Programming scenario                  |
+==============+========================================+=======================================+

> |merged.hex    | Full image, HEX format                 | Using debug probe                     |

Reviewer 3: Using external debug probe and nRF Connect Programmer

Author: Modified.

+--------------+----------------------------------------+---------------------------------------+

> |app_signed.hex| MCUboot compatible image, HEX format   | Using nRF Connect Programmer          |

Reviewer 3: Using the built in bootloader and nRF Connect Programmer

Author: Modified.

+--------------+----------------------------------------+---------------------------------------+

> |app_update.bin| MCUboot compatible image, binary format|* Using ``mcumgr`` command line tool   |

Reviewer 3: Using the built in bootloader and ``mcumgr`` command line tool

Author: Modified.

|              |                                        |* For FOTA updates                     |
+--------------+----------------------------------------+---------------------------------------+

There are multiple methods of programming a sample or application onto a Thingy:91.
You can choose the method based on the availability or absence of an external debug probe to program.

.. note::

>    In the event of not having an external debug probe to program the Thingy:91, you can directly program by :ref:`using the USB (MCUboot) method and nRF Connect Programmer<programming_usb>`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
   If you do not have an external debug probe available to program the Thingy:91, you can directly program by :ref:`using the USB (MCUboot) method and nRF Connect Programmer<programming_usb>`.
```

>    The ``app_signed.hex`` firmware image file is used for the update in this scenario.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
   In this scenario, use the :file:`app_signed.hex` firmware image file.
```

.. _build_pgm_segger:

Building and programming using SEGGER Embedded Studio
=====================================================

.. include:: gs_programming.rst
   :start-after: build_SES_projimport_open_start
   :end-before: build_SES_projimport_open_end

.. figure:: images/ses_thingy_configuration.png
   :alt: Opening the AT Client sample

>    Opening the AT Client sample for the nrf9160_pca20035ns build target

Reviewer 2: Why are we using the AT Client sample here instead of the asset tracker?

Author: changed the screenshot and the example to 'Opening the Asset tracker application'

.. note::

   The *Board Directory* folder can be found in the following location: ``ncs/nrf/boards/arm``.

4. Click **OK** to import the project into SES. You can now work with the project in the IDE.

   .. include:: gs_programming.rst
      :start-after: build_SES_projimport_note_start
      :end-before: build_SES_projimport_note_end

> #. To build the sample or an application:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
#. To build the sample or application:
```

   a. Select your project in the Project Explorer.
   #. From the menu, select **Build -> Build Solution**.
      This builds the project.

>    You can find the output of the build, which includes the merged HEX file containing both the application and the SPM, in the ``zephyr`` sub-folder in the build directory.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
   You can find the output of the build, which includes the merged HEX file containing both the application and the SPM, in the ``zephyr`` subfolder in the build directory.
```

.. prog_extdebugprobe_start

6. To program the sample or application:

>    a. Set the Thingy:91 SWD selection switch (**SW2**) to **nRF91** or **nRF52** depending on whether you have to program the nRF9160 SiP or the nRF52840 SoC component.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
   a. Set the Thingy:91 SWD selection switch (**SW2**) to **nRF91** or **nRF52** depending on whether you want to program the nRF9160 SiP or the nRF52840 SoC component.
```

> 4. Click **OK** to import the project into SES. You can now work with the project in the IDE.

Reviewer 2: Line break.

Author: Added.

   #. Connect the Thingy:91 to the debug out port on a 10-pin external debug probe, for example, nRF9160 DK (Development Kit), using a 10-pin JTAG cable.

      .. note::

         If you are using nRF9160 DK as the debug probe, make sure that **VDD_IO (SW11)** is set to 1.8 V on the nRF9160 DK.

   #. Connect the external debug probe to the PC using USB.
   #. Make sure that the Thingy:91 and the external debug probe are powered on.

.. prog_extdebugprobe_end
..

   e. In SES, select **Target -> Connect J-Link**.
   #. Select **Target -> Download zephyr/merged.hex** to program the sample or application onto Thingy:91.
   #. The device will reset and run the programmed sample or application.

.. _build_pgm_cmdline:

> Building and programming using Command line

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Building and programming on the command line
```

===========================================

> Complete the command line build setup (see the instructions for :ref:`Windows<build_environment_cli_win>` and :ref:`Linux<build_environment_cli_linux>`) before you start building |NCS| projects on the command line.

Reviewer 2: Do we have instructions for macOS as well?

Reviewer 3: Yes, https://developer.nordicsemi.com/nRF_Connect_SDK/doc/latest/nrf/gs_ins_mac.html

Author: Added this.

To build and program the source code from the command line, complete the following steps:

1. Open a terminal window.
#. Go to the specific sample or application directory.
   For example, the folder path is ``ncs/nrf/applications/asset_tracker`` when building the source code for the :ref:`asset_tracker` application on the nRF9160 SiP component and ``ncs/nrf/samples/usb/usb_uart_bridge`` when building the source code for the :ref:`usb_uart_bridge_sample` sample on the nRF52840 SoC component.

> #. Make sure that you have the latest version of |NCS| repository by pulling the |NCS| repository, `fw-nrfconnect-nrf`_ on GitHub using the command:

Reviewer 2: @joakimtoe This sentence only makes sense if we want people to work on master. Do we? Then we should also point this out.

Reviewer 3: Ahh, you are correct. Its up to the developer to decide if he wants to base his work on a tag or master. I suggest we guide in both scenarios.

Author: Replaced the existing text with : 
Make sure that you have the required version of |NCS| repository by pulling the |NCS| repository, `fw-nrfconnect-nrf`_ on GitHub using the procedures described in :ref:`dm-wf-get-ncs` and :ref:`dm-wf-update-ncs`.

   .. parsed-literal::
      :class: highlight

      git pull

#. To get the rest of the dependencies, run the ``west`` command as follows:

   .. parsed-literal::
      :class: highlight

      west update

#. To build the sample or application code, run the ``west build`` command as follows:

   .. parsed-literal::
      :class: highlight

	  west build -b *board_name* -d *destination_directory_name*

>    .. note::

Reviewer 2: Add this as normal text and not as note (to avoid two consecutive notes).

>       The parameter *board_name* should be ``nrf9160_pca20035`` or ``nrf9160_pca20035ns`` if building on the nRF9160 SiP component and ``nrf52840_pca20035`` if building on the nRF52840 SoC component.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
      The parameter *board_name* should be ``nrf9160_pca20035`` or ``nrf9160_pca20035ns`` if building for the nRF9160 SiP component and ``nrf52840_pca20035`` if building for the nRF52840 SoC component.
```

   .. note::

	  The parameter *destination_directory_name* can be used to optionally specify the destination directory in the west command.
	  Unless a *destination_directory_name* is specified, the build files are automatically generated in ``build/zephyr/``.

.. include:: ug_thingy91.rst
   :start-after: prog_extdebugprobe_start
   :end-before: prog_extdebugprobe_end
..

>    e. Navigate to the directory of the sample or application for which you have built the images.

Reviewer 2: You should already be in there, right?

Author: Deleted this step

> #. Make sure that you have the required version of |NCS| repository by pulling the |NCS| repository, `fw-nrfconnect-nrf`_ on GitHub using the procedures described in :ref:`dm-wf-get-ncs` and :ref:`dm-wf-update-ncs`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
#. Make sure that you have the required version of the |NCS| repository by pulling the |NCS| repository, `fw-nrfconnect-nrf`_ on GitHub using the procedures described in :ref:`dm-wf-get-ncs` and :ref:`dm-wf-update-ncs`.
```

Author: Added.

> #. To get the rest of the dependencies, run the ``west`` command as follows:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
#. To get the rest of the dependencies, run the ``west update`` command as follows:
```

Either this or just "``west`` command" in the following step - both works, it should just be consistent. :)

Author: Modified
